i hope you guys enjoyed this episode
brought to you by our sponsors at
athletic greens to receive a free
one-year supply of vitamin d and five
free travel packs with your first
purchase
visit athleticgreens.com impact theory
enjoy the episode
[Music]
hey everybody welcome to another episode
of impact theory i am going to be
talking to you today
all about the power of thought this is
one of the most important topics i don't
care but anybody tells you
if you get your mind right if you get
your thoughts under control you can
change the trajectory of your life you
can literally change
every aspect of your life whether
you want to believe it or not you are
living in a simulation
it's just that that simulation is
happening between your ears
and one of the core concepts of my life
is the fact that your brain
is housed in a vat light never touches
your brain think about that
sound never touches your brain you get
these electrical
chemical signals that are translated
by your brain into all this stuff that
you think of as being the real world out
there around you but in reality it is
all happening inside your mind
it was the neuroscientist david eagleman
that first got me thinking about that
and it is such
a powerful idea to realize that
everything that you think of as the real
world is really a simulation being run
by
your brain now once you realize
that you are living in a simulation
that's controlled by your brain
and the way that it influences you is
through your subconscious and your
conscious mind
you begin to realize that you've got to
take control of the conscious part and
they both influence each other so
getting a hold of your conscious mind is
going to have
profound implications in terms of
your emotional well-being in terms of
the feelings that you have
that are coming from your body so it is
this incredible two-way street
of your body reporting to the mind the
mind reporting to the body the mind
running all of these predictive
simulations essentially about what the
future is going to look like your brain
is this extraordinary predictive
machine and taking control of that
process realizing that you can
take control of that process is arguably
the most
important decision that any human being
will ever make
so the power of thought what is it
it's everything all right question
number one
what role does the subconscious mind
play in our thinking process for making
decisions
all right read lisa feldman barrett's
book
how emotions are made understanding that
two-way street that i was talking about
between the mind and the body
is extraordinary powerful because it is
how you're going to get out of this
death loop of
whether it's background what i call
background radiation of anxiety whether
it's even something as profound as
depression
ultimately you have to retrain your body
and this is one of the reasons that
psychedelics are proving to be such a
profound
tool in the fight against intractable
depression and anxiety
is you're causing this total disruption
of the way that you re-live
the event now once you take a memory
out of storage in your brain and you're
sort of holding it in
working memory so you're reliving this
thing you're reassigning
emotion to that before you restore it
now that emotion
is that two-way street between the body
so the way that emotions are made
is your body will give you a sensation
that's based on historical
um interactions so i remember one time
as a kid i was playing out in front of a
house i was actually drinking out of a
hose
and i heard the roar of a car engine the
squeal of tires and then
pow the car hit a gigantic tree about 20
feet from me
and had the tree not been there it would
have killed me it was crazy it would
have smashed into the house was
nuts and for two decades
after that the sound of a racing car
engine would make my heart speed up it
was
crazy the way that i had formed this
association of danger
with that sound and the person ended up
getting like
absolutely battered in the car accident
so of course that was part of the trauma
they're stumbling out of the car
bleeding profusely
was madness and that got
fused with this heightened physiological
response
so now i would hear a car engine rev
right subconsciously
i now have this fight or flight moment
of something that actually doesn't have
any
sort of real world tie to danger but
because of that one experience now my
subconscious had been hijacked and it
kept feeding me
this signal that i was in danger
whenever i heard that sound and so
understanding at the biological level
what's going on that your brain goes
whoa
i'm getting this sensation there must be
a reason
and that is one of the most important
ideas
in my life is that the brain will
justify
whatever emotion you have so if you
think negative thoughts about yourself
that begins to
wire in at the body level so when you
think about speaking up in front of
somebody when you think about
you know taking a risk at your job or
whatever putting yourself on the line
and you have these negative thoughts the
mirror
about yourself the mere thought of
stepping out in front of people
triggers that subconscious feeling that
you're not worthy you're not good enough
whatever
and it makes you want to retreat into
yourself now when you understand
that that's actually a process that you
can insert yourself into you can take
control of the subconscious sensations
being sent by your body by telling
yourself a new narrative about yourself
and that over time it actually will
begin to wire itself
at a body level because the brain
will justify whatever reaction you feed
it
so if you get hyped up and like hey i'm
a learner man i can get good at this no
matter what you put me in front of
people i'm going to be able to figure
this out
if that's the story that you repeat and
you say it to other people and you do it
with energy and enthusiasm
then the brain goes oh okay cool i get
it we're excited about this
doing this thing getting out in front of
people we're gonna learn this is a
moment of excitement for us
it takes time but you really can shift
the subconscious signal that your body
sends you
by rehearsing it at a heightened level
of excitement
this is where i get really obsessed with
this idea that we're all having a
biological experience
and once you realize you're having a
and you can take control of some of
those biological processes
you can get a tremendously improved
outcome
all right so don't let your negative
thoughts run away with you don't let
them dictate
your life because they will feed your
subconscious and your subconscious
ultimately is what feeds that
sensation and they say that the
subconscious mind can process data
faster and faster meaning much more
information
much faster but the subconscious mind
speaks in the language of
emotion and we just talked about how
those emotions are formed and they
become a part of your everyday life so
you need to insert yourself so you can
change that process
all right question number two how
do you go about bringing the vision in
your mind and making that into a reality
right here is an idea that i want you
guys to get obsessed with
you become what you repeat
let me repeat that you become what you
repeat
now if you become what you repeat and
the thing that you repeat
in your own head is what a loser you are
that things never go your way
that the world is against you that
you're hard done by that you're just not
talented like other people that things
weren't meant for you
if that's what you're repeating in your
head that is what is going to become
your reality
because if you predict it right
nothing ever works out for me i'm a
loser i always screw things up okay
your brain is a predictive machine we
talked about that before so your brain
is predicting
you're telling yourself on a loop that
this never works out for me i always
screw things up i'm too stupid whatever
your brain then is going to expect to
see that
and then basically no matter what
happens your brain is going to find a
way to conform that
to the narrative that you tell yourself
okay and we've all seen people do this
where
we're there in a room with them and we
see things well things are like really
working out for them this is going great
and then when they retell the story they
only focus on the negative parts and
it's like whoa were we
in the same room because what i saw was
good sure 20 percent bad but it was 80
good
and all that person repeats is the 20
that was bad and because that's their
habit that was all they saw when they
looked at that event
and so really understanding the
necessity
of grabbing a hold of that process of
recognizing
whatever you allow yourself to repeat is
gonna be the thing that you see it is
going to become the bedrock of your life
so if you're repeating i'm a learner i
can figure this out
there's nothing that you can put on me
that on a long enough timeline i can't
figure out these are the things i tell
myself by the way so if you're ever
wondering what it's like to be inside my
head
it starts with a negative thought i
refuse to allow myself to repeat that
i do what's called a pattern interrupt
so as soon as i say oh man i'm too dumb
i'm never going to figure this out
i pattern interrupt no you're the
learner
do not allow yourself to repeat that
you're dumb and that you can't figure
this out
you're the learner anything that anybody
brings you you can figure out
going back to the previous question i
say it with enthusiasm i'm telling other
people i get myself hyped up i smile
i get energetic now my brain goes whoa
the body's like getting really amped up
about this
the amplitude of reaction will get
justified by my brain and now
because i'm repeating it that i can
learn anything on a long enough timeline
i can be
anyone at anything human potential is
nearly limitless the average
person is the ultimate adaptation
machine therefore
i am the ultimate adaptation machine i
can get good at anything with
disciplined practice
and i'm saying that i'm saying it in
this heightened emotional way
now all of a sudden my brain is
justifying that whoa
we really must be a learner and this
really must be a good thing because
we're saying it with all this excitement
and so now by repeating that
by doing that on a loop by having that
running
40 50 times a day seven days a week
365 days a year i now
get an innate emotional response
to challenge that's positive and
that puts me in this positive loop of
where i don't encounter a challenge
and want to stop or want to back off or
feel badly about myself or think about
all the times where i screwed it up
i encountered that challenge i've
repeated so many times that i can figure
this out
and i've celebrated my wins so
obsessively and when i do something and
goes wrong and 80 goes right i'm
spending all my time with the things
that went right
i learned from the things that went
wrong but i'm repeating about the things
that were wrong that i can figure this
out
i can learn it i can get better and then
on the 80
i'm celebrating it to really lock it in
and so
that repetition is exactly how you make
it stick
all right next up how to find difference
how to find the difference between
digging deep and overthinking
like how to identify overthinking and
stop doing it because
you need to think to analyze but if you
overthink you don't get a solution
all right so thinking is super important
and
overthinking is a catastrophic waste of
time
now i have rules in my life and this is
all a part of how i get control of my
subconscious mind
how i get control of the things that i
repeat how i'm making sure that i'm
making the most of my
time and what i am
obsessed with is how just how the human
mind
works so not judging it not saying oh i
wish it would be different though there
are many things that i do wish would be
different
i focus entirely on
recognizing the truth of the way the
human mind
works and the way that the human mind
works is
that if you don't take action you will
never
get the full benefit of
the way that experience
action has this magnification effect
of the lesson it's what i call the
whiteboard effect
when i was in high school and i was in
math class the teacher would explain
something
i would think i had it and i would go
home and i would realize whoa i actually
don't know how this works
the times where they forced me to go up
to the whiteboard you know i didn't want
to do it and i had to
actually do the problem i had to take
action i had to go through it
then i realized where my sense that i
understood something
met the reality of i actually don't know
this and it forced me to work through it
that is life there are things you can
try to think your way through and
thinking is very valuable
but it needs to be done in conjunction
with action so you're not thinking in a
vacuum
you're thinking back on the action you
took
so to give you an idea i recently had a
big initiative here at impact theory
which is
nfts and i didn't know anything about it
and i went from hearing the letters nft
put together in that order for the first
time
and 48 to 72 hours later we had launched
a major initiative
and and i'm talking multiple millions of
dollars initiative
and the team was panicking a little
because
we were moving so quickly but what i
wanted them to understand is
i'll never be able to think my way to
understanding this i can always back out
of the initiative and not
end up spending all the money that we
you know had earmarked for it
but to really understand that this is
real i have to go down that path
and uh marie forleo has a tremendous
example about this
so powerful about dance class and she
was like oh you know i'm 25. could i
ever be a dancer i don't know
and she spent like a year like hemming
and hawing and then she said she went
and took
a single dance class and 20 minutes into
the dance class she knew
whether she was late to the party or not
she wanted to dedicate her life
to dance and that 20 minutes in a dance
class
i had her in tears and she was just like
it was a transformational moment for her
and 20 minutes did what a year could not
do
and so when you force yourself to take
action which is the rule that i have in
my life
that i know action cures all
you're never going to be able to think
your way to the right solution do a
little bit of thinking
do enough to have a general direction of
which way you want to go and then
take action i cannot tell you how many
problems
that is going to solve for you in your
life take
action take action action cures
all going back to that idea of
repetition right so
that's one of those ideas you should get
very obsessed with go out take action
you will be shocked at how rapidly
you will get past whatever death loop
you've been in
around overthinking now you're going to
take action and then think
take more action and then think take
more action and think so as i go i'm
constantly researching i'm constantly
learning i'm constantly reflecting on
what i do but i'm
always doing and if you do that it will
transform
your life let's talk about athletic
greens the all-in-one daily drink to
support
better health and peak performance with
so many stressors in life it's difficult
to maintain
effective nutritional habits and give
our bodies the nutrients it needs
to thrive busy schedules poor sleep
exercise stress or simply
not eating enough of the foods that your
body needs
that's where athletic greens can help
their daily drink is like nutritional
insurance for your body that's delivered
straight to your
door developed from a complex blend of
75 vitamins minerals and whole foods
sourced ingredients
athletic greens is a greens powder
engineered to help fill the nutritional
gaps in your diet
athletic greens continues to obsessively
improve this
one holistic formula based on the latest
research
producing 53 iterations over the last
decade
and counting it's lifestyle friendly
whether you eat keto
paleo vegan dairy free or gluten free
and contains less than one gram of sugar
without compromising on taste
so many people on our team at impact
theory are talking all about their
experiences with athletic greens
they love the taste and how they can get
the micronutrients from various veggies
without having to cook or buy groceries
so when our marketing associate chase
is busy and he knows he's not going to
be able to easily eat any greens
he can bring along athletic greens and
make sure that he's still getting
adequate micronutrients
from the powder without having to eat an
entire farm's worth
of a salad so whether you're looking for
peak performance or
better health covering your bases with
athletic greens makes investing in your
energy
immunity and gut health each day simple
tasty
and efficient so whether you're looking
for peak performance or
better health covering your bases with
athletic greens makes investing in your
energy
immunity and gut health each day simple
tasty and efficient and right now
athletic greens is
doubling down on supporting your immune
system during the winter months
they're offering our audience a free one
year supply of vitamin d and five
travel packs with your first purchase
simply visit athleticgreens.com
impact theory again that's
athleticgreens.com
impact theory and get your free one-year
supply of vitamin d
and five free travel packs today
all right guys give it a shot take care
and be legendary
next why is it so
much easier to manifest bad thoughts
than positive thoughts
all right so going back to the idea
you're having a biological experience
the brain works a certain way okay we
are not all blank slates
science seems to peg it roughly at 50
50.
50 of who you are is born it is the
human
brain and the human brain has evolved
over millions of years of evolution
it is designed to do one thing and that
one thing is to keep you alive
long enough to have children that have
children
okay that's what the brain is trying to
do and once you understand that the
brain does not
really care how you feel anymore then it
gets you to take the right actions right
it wants you to do things to keep you
safe
fed and it wants to make sure that
you're procreating
now you can begin to see a lot of sort
of human dynamics
once you understand that that is what
the brain is designed to do so the brain
is not designed to make sure
that you run your own company or that
you come out wealthy the brain
is not designed to make sure that you
love every moment of your life
the brain is designed to keep you alive
now to keep you alive it's got to make
you pay attention to the negative stuff
so one of my favorite examples of how
the brain is
wired for danger and risk perception
so think about if you've ever seen a
garden hose out of the corner of your
eye and jumped only to realize oh man
that's just
a garden hose is not a snake now the
reason that the brain is wired like that
is you are
way better off thinking that a hose is a
snake
than you are to think that a snake is a
hose if you think that the
snake is a garden hose and you
uh don't react and don't get out of the
way and the snake bites you you die
but if you think that the garden hose is
a snake and you jump out of the way
then the only problem is a little bit of
embarrassment and so
that is the thing that plays out when
you think about why your brain is
constantly going to negative thoughts
because it is far better to say hey
this is dangerous you're not smart
enough for this just
chill take a back seat because in a
world which we don't live in anymore but
you know
over the eons of evolution
to get ostracized from a group was
essentially certain death
and so your brain wanted to make sure
that you didn't do anything that was
going to get you ostracized from the
group so the brain in many ways
is is unafraid is probably the right way
to think about it it is unafraid to keep
you small it is unafraid to warn you
it's not that it if it sees that you're
doing well and that you're crushing it
then it's going to lift you up as well
so there is that flip side of the coin
but that can be
a very dangerous game so there's always
this hedge
so to me and this is just sort of ball
parking it gut instinct
it seems to be somewhere like five to
seven times
more impactful on the negative side
so for you like social comments right is
a really easy way to think of it
for it to balance out you would need to
get
roughly seven times the number of
positive comments
to the negative comments and still walk
away from that feeling good
and that is just the brain sussing out
danger the brain
trying to figure out how to keep you
safe
and understanding that that's the driver
then you get into the territory that i
think is incredibly powerful of
realizing you don't have to believe
everything you think and you really
don't have to believe
everything you feel and
inserting yourself into both the
conscious and subconscious dialogue
that your brain and body are having is
critically
important to maintaining your mental
health because
as your brain in a world where we're
hyper connected
and there's constantly the the
quote-unquote risk from an evolutionary
perspective of being ostracized of
having the group turn on you saying
something stupid having people attack
you
um your brain is constantly like danger
signal danger signal and you get a
signal as if it is
physical danger so somebody saying
something negative
about you actually hurts it triggers
pain receptors in your brain
and registers as actual danger and so
inserting yourself into that realize
that it actually
isn't danger and recognizing that the
brain has a bias towards negativity that
is just trying to keep you safe
you can begin to navigate that you can
either say you know thank you brain for
trying to keep me safe
but in reality this is not some big
dramatic thing and so i'm going to be
perfectly fine
or you can just use it as a habit loop
trigger of every time your brain tries
to get you to focus on the negative
you remind yourself to consciously take
control of that and focus
on the positive just all of that boils
down to the key of
understanding that that is the brain's
nature that is
what the brain does this is not a
failing of you this does not mean that
you're a bad person or that you have a
defective brain
it simply means this is the nature of
the human brain
and it gives you that in of being able
to take some conscious control
so just make sure that you actually
exert that
all right okay
on the one hand i feel i have to immerse
myself in creative thinking and that
takes time to get into a flow state
on the other hand i feel meditation and
clearing my mind is helpful
how do you manage these two states of
mind i feel that the calm meditation
somehow blocks the creative immersive
flow thanks
okay so this is going back into that
idea of thinking versus doing
meditation is extraordinarily powerful
but there is a reason and i in fact let
me back
up and say not only is it powerful
but it saved my life is a little
dramatic but it's really close
to being true and so i spend about 20
minutes a day meditating
and i spent the rest of my day going
hard building things
trying to get into the flow state now
the reason that that time balance
exists is that's what i find is useful
so
the reason i'm meditating i want to get
rid of background radiation
anxiety fear um stress overwhelm okay i
want to get rid of all of that
which i do by breathing from my
diaphragm
it's what i call a physiological hook
into the mind
so it's a it's a seesaw
meaning when one side goes down the
other goes up
and if you think about the two
antagonistic forces of the seesaw
being the sympathetic nervous system
known as fight or flight
and the parasympathetic nervous system
known as rest and digest
and only one can be up at a time so as
the sympathetic nervous system goes up
and you slide into fight or flight you
are no longer calm
as the reverse happens and the
parasympathetic
nervous system goes up then the
sympathetic nervous system goes down and
you are calm and you can't be both calm
and anxious at the same time now the
reason i refer to breathing from the
diaphragm
as a physiological hook is that by
breathing from the diaphragm
even if you don't want to you will
slide into a parasympathetic response
so you will force the parasympathetic
nervous system up rest and digest
and the sympathetic nervous system down
that's why it's incredibly important to
learn
how to effectively breathe from your
diaphragm there are a ton
of youtube videos out there it is very
easy you're breathing from your belly
that's basically the punch line
it is relatively easy to do
and like i said you can if you search
mark divine
box breathing that's the person that
introduced me to it
you will learn how to breathe from your
diaphragm you will learn how to do a
very simple version of meditation and
you can get all the benefits now having
said all of that by doing that i get
into a calm
creative state but then that calm
creative state
gives me the insights that i need to
then go and work on something
so i want to spend my time being
productive
meditation for me is about learning to
very quickly get rid of background
radiation
and if i find during the day it's going
up i'll sit and meditate in the middle
of the day
whatever like you're going to operate so
much more effectively
once you're in that calm and creative
state than you will if that background
radiation is going up
and i think that you will find that
while if all
you do is meditate you'll never get into
the sort of performance
aspect of flow but if you don't meditate
you won't be able to achieve flow
because you have that anxiety you have
those fears you're stuck in your head
you know all these ideas are sort of
crashing on you at once it can be very
overwhelming
meditation allows us to clear that and
to
actually perform at our best so to me
the only sort of worry is
you want to make sure that you're
spending time actually executing
but you want to have done the prep work
first so
um there is such a thing as
not getting the result that you want
from meditating if you're letting your
mind wander you're not consistently
breathing from your diaphragm
so don't panic if in the beginning
meditation isn't working as well as you
would like
um that is definitely something that you
can get better at just by doing it every
day you know 5 minutes 10 minutes 20
minutes
and i think the more you do it the
faster you will find yourself being able
to slide into that but
the two aren't antagonistic to each
other other than at a time allocation
standpoint so don't be afraid i start my
days with meditation i find that sets me
up well
but like i said if i'm struggling and
for whatever reason
stress is creeping in anxiety is
creeping in then i'll sit down and
meditate again
because functioning optimally
for a shorter period of time is far
more useful than functioning subpar
for a longer period of time which is
also why you should get sleep
that's how i see it all right next up
what is your thought process behind when
you do your research i'm amazed how you
are always
prepared how in all caps do you do it
what's the process i completely suck at
this okay so
honestly my process is extraordinarily
simple now the way that i think about it
sort of the the
at a conceptual level is that
we are synthesizing machines and the
more
information we take in the more unique
ideas we're likely to have
so our unique mind our unique experience
is going to interact
you know in the case of researching a
person is going to interact with
all the things that i learn about that
person and it's going to
interact in a unique way so i'm going to
come up with unique questions there's
going to be a unique
part of their story that i'm attracted
to and so
my process is my thought process is
twofold one i want to get in as much
data as i can so i want to
read their book i want to watch a bunch
of videos that they've done all the
interviews that i can get my hands on
so i'm interacting with a lot of things
and then the second part is
that i want to follow my unique
reactions
so when i'm hearing somebody do an
interview
and you know the interviewer asks them a
question and they give an answer
and they're like oh yeah you know it's
funny that makes me think of my dog in
the time that they died on my bed and
then they just move on to the other part
of the question and nobody follows up
that the guy is obviously saying like
the dog
dying on his bed like really have made
an impact
i want to know about that like how is
that played in why
mention that in this arena like now i'm
super curious
and i found by loading myself with
information
letting my mind sort of bounce around on
that thing and then
being totally unafraid to chase the
things i find her interesting
so maybe nobody else asked them about
that but i find it interesting and so
i'm gonna pursue that
that like so obviously i've been doing
that for years now but in the very very
very beginning when it was called inside
quest
i didn't do that and i really was trying
to like this is what i think an
interviewer is supposed to be and so i'm
asking the questions i think an
interviewer is supposed to ask
and then finally i was like no no let me
just chase the things that
i find fascinating now how i learn
is a very specific thing that i call
learning in swarms i'll often refer to
it as reading in swarms but because when
i'm researching for an interview it's
often
um podcasts so i'll say i'm learning in
swarms
so i will learn about the guest
and their specific life story or
whatever but also if they have a topic
i'm going to go research the topic as
well so now as a synthesizing machine
i get all these ideas that they talk
about so recently i had a sleep expert
on the show matthew walker
fascinating fascinating interview you
want to check it out
now part of the research for that wasn't
just researching what he knows about
sleep it's all the other people that
have researched about sleep it was also
like he would talk about a specific
topic around sleep i want to go
figure out about that thing and that
becomes
really powerful so you take this idea
and i'm i'm just
i'm not going to sit down and like you
know watch
one interview or read one book and like
really labor the point
i'm gonna go hey i'm gonna go through
this at if it's a normal
language speed i'll go through it at 2.2
x speed
if it's a book usually i'm closer to 3x
speed depending on the narrator
and there's gonna be a lot of stuff that
i won't understand i'm like okay that's
interesting
yeah i'm not quite sure i'm following
that i don't slow down i keep going
because i know i'm gonna
attack this in a swarm so once i finish
that maybe i go into another interview
maybe i go on to another book whatever
and now as i
read in the swarm that is this topic i
begin to figure out what the vernacular
is
what the important topics are who the
players are in the space
who's really saying something insightful
who's not because you don't want to over
invest in
one book and spend all your time
researching and taking notes
it's like i'm going to read you know 10
books on the subject i wouldn't read
that many books for an interview
just because limited time but you get
the idea like when i'm trying to take in
a topic i'm gonna go as hard as i can as
many different interviews as i can as
many different books as i can
and get this topic from a whole bunch of
different levels and just
naturally over time there's sort of an
osmosis effect
around that topic where you just begin
to understand
what the main themes are what the like
oh maybe i didn't understand
um you know to take sleep you know maybe
you don't understand
the the way that amyloid plaques are
washed out of the brain at night okay
maybe in the beginning you don't
understand that the brain actually
shrinks in the middle of the night and
that there's
um you know this system for cleaning out
the fluids in the brain
and so the first time you hear you're
like i have no idea what that is i don't
know what that means i don't know
anything about it
but by the third or fourth time you come
across it it's like oh cool okay i'm
really beginning to understand what this
is
um that's hugely important and then
here's another part of um
why i'm so prepared for interviews i'm
deeply
curious so i spend it averages so
obviously some days is way more like on
the weekends some days is less
but on average if you took uh a week a
month or even a year it's going to be
the same average
two and a half hours a day every day
seven days a week
dedicated to learning and so it's pretty
shocking
how many different topics you can touch
on i keep a list called
two research so here are the things that
you know i want to research
um and so whenever i have a down moment
i've got you know a gaggle of youtube
videos that i can watch
i mean there's you know the fact that
you guys are are watching this video
right now i'm sure you
already subscribed to the idea that
youtube is an
unlimited treasure trove of knowledge
it is honestly it's one of the most
extraordinary things to come out of the
internet it is
insane how much information you can
learn for
free on any topic you can imagine
there's somebody out there creating
content around it
so i have a an endless
list of things to research on youtube
and then i just do it fiendishly
from the second from the second i wake
up
i keep three pairs of headphones next to
my bed
so that if one is dead at any one time
i'm never in the position where i can't
immediately
put headphones on and start listening to
something that i previously earmarked so
that i'm
ready to go i never miss a beat i brush
my teeth while i'm
reading or listening to a video i make
my food i feed the dogs i pee
everything that i do i'm doing not
everything
everything that i'm doing by myself uh i
do
while i'm learning if my body can be on
autopilot
um working out i don't listen to music
while i work out when i'm working out i
am listening to a book i'm listening to
a youtube video
i'm learning so that framework that i
call abl
always be learning has served me
extraordinarily well so that i'm
synthesizing all of this data
that when somebody mentions something
that maybe i didn't realize
they were into but i've already
researched that you know at some other
point in my past and again researched it
in a swarm
so that i've encountered that idea so
many times from so many different angles
that i can easily apply it
to what that person is talking about um
that's how i think about it get all the
information you can be
endlessly curious and throw an ungodly
amount of time into learning and then it
all just looks like magic
and speaking of magic that is the power
of thought i can't think of anything
that will more profoundly change your
life
than getting your thought process right
and getting your mindset right thinking
about things in the right way
taking control of your
thoughts at the end of the day it's the
most important thing that you could do
for yourself
it truly is magic it's the magic
of the mind you see
what you think about you become what you
repeat
you feel what you embody
so take conscious control of that
process
and there is not a single element of
your life that you can't improve i
promise you
there's not a single element of your
life that can't be made better
by taking control of what you think
about that thing
there's an amazing shakespeare quote oh
let this burn into your soul
nothing is either good or bad
but thinking makes it so there's nothing
either good or bad
but thinking makes it so if you think
something is bad then it is
if you think something is good then it
is
tony robbins has this great concept he
says think of the worst thing
that's ever happened to you in your life
and now ask yourself
how was that actually the best thing
that ever happened to me
and by changing the question that you
ask you change the mental and emotional
result that you get without anything
changing about that past event
all right don't fail to leverage the
power of your own thoughts guys
it determines the quality of your life
all right and speaking of things that
will determine the quality of your life
if you haven't already be sure to
subscribe
and until next time my friends be
legendary take care
hey everybody thank you so much for
watching if you haven't already be sure
to smash that subscribe button and hit
the bell notification so you never
miss a thing until next time my friends
be legendary take care